_talks/five-tips-aspiring-tech-management.md, before:

---
title: "Five Tips for Aspiring Tech Managers"
layout: talk
published: true
description: "Not enough good developers move into management and this has a negative impact on our industry as it can lead to bad business decisions. This talk offers five tips to guide and encourage developers to consider a management role as this will improve our industry and the lives of developers generally."
tag: [Management, Mentoring, Leadership]
slides: "https://speakerdeck.com/robdwaller/5-tips-for-aspiring-tech-managers"
---
## Elevator Pitch
> You have 300 characters to sell your talk. This is known as the "elevator pitch". Make it as exciting and enticing as possible.

More developers should become managers as our industry is rife with bad decisions made by inexperienced people. This talk offers five tips to encourage developers to consider management. More technical managers will improve our industry, our products, the client and user experience, and our lives.

## Description
> You should make the description of your talk as compelling and exciting as possible. Remember, you're selling both the organizers of the events to select your talk, as well as trying to convince attendees your talk is the one they should see.

Management is not a topic of interest for many developers as it diverges from their core interest which is code. It is though an important topic for developers as management decisions have serious effects on their jobs and their work. Often technical management decisions are made be ill-informed people who do not have enough technical experience nor understand how business decisions effect software development and output. It is therefore important that good developers go on to become technical managers.

The transition from code to management can be both scary and a challenge. Management forces many developers outside their comfort zone as they have to deal with issues and problems they have little experience of. Like code though the skills management require can be learnt. This talk offers five tips that will encourage and guide developers through some of the basic problems and issues that they will face as they learn to become good managers.

### You Don't Have to be a Great Coder to be a Great Manager

Developers are often put off management or tech leadership because they assume you have to be a great coder, or the best in your team. This is a damaging misconception as managers need many other skills along with their code experience. Developers should not focus too much on technical skill when considering a move into management. Instead they should focus on other factors such as business experience and communication skills. They should take inspiration from other fields, such as sport, where often the best managers are not the most technically gifted. Developers who wish to become managers should hone their communication skills, and learn about leadership, empathy, and business generally.

### Mistakes Will Happen

Every manager will make mistakes as navigating through the array of challenges management involves is difficult. What is important is not the mistake itself but how the manager responds to the mistake. Good managers need to take ownership of their mistakes and learn to apologise where appropriate. Most importantly though they need to learn how to change and improve after a mistake. And finally they need to learn to keep moving forward and put their mistakes behind them.

### Expect the Unexpected

Tech management isn't just about technology and code, managers have to deal with lots of other issues. Eg the mental wellbeing of their team, their complicated personal lives and many other issues. Managers have to learn to work with departments such as HR and always be prepared to deal with the unexpected. Anything can happen, but a manager's main aim should be to maintain team stability while odd or difficult situations are underway. This is so their team can focus on project delivery without disruption.

### Learn to Compromise

Developers often have high standards, as managers though there are times when compromises will need to be made which will lower standards. There are many reasons for this, business priorities, financial restrictions, difficult clients. It is important to understand how to compromise and what to compromise on. Good managers find a balance between belligerence and softness, the former will damage your inter-team relationships and the latter your team itself. Managers must define 'lines in the sand' that they will not compromise on. But these lines must be understandable to the non-technical because they will require the buy in of other teams and managers. A good 'line in the sand' is security. Don't let anyone do anything that will damage security as this may harm your organisation. Code quality by contrast is a bad 'line in the sand'. It is subjective and non-technical people will not understand its importance. In all other areas managers should be willing to compromise.

### Keep Coding

Developers often believe when they become managers the code stops, but this is nonsense. It is important that tech managers continue to code as  learning never stops. Also managers who continue to code will maintain team respect and keep up to date with the latest technical innovations. It can be difficult for managers to find the time to code, especially in the working day. It is not though the quantity of code that matters but the continuation and routine. A couple of hours a week on a personal a project or contributing to an OSS project is more than enough to keep a manager in touch. And conferences help too, even if it is just one a year.  

## Notes
> This is where you should explain things such as technical requirements, why you're the best person to speak on this subject, etc...

This talk has no technical requirements, even people from non-technical backgrounds may find it useful. It is aimed at all developers who are considering their career path and thinking that management may be an option for them now or in the future.

I have been a technical manager for two years, running a team of ten developers, QAs and project managers. In addition, I spent a few years running a startup which I eventually sold to a larger company. These experiences have provided me with a great insight into management and the business of technology more widely which I'd love to share with other developers.

For more information on me please view my [bio](https://rbrt.wllr.info/about.html) or [CV](https://rbrt.wllr.info/cv.pdf).

## Slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="9cc457d708334dee8a43ca2037aeb800" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Commit message:

Added talk information to management tips talk

_talks/five-tips-aspiring-tech-management.md, after:

---
title: "Five Tips for Aspiring Tech Managers"
layout: talk
published: true
description: "Not enough good developers move into management and this has a negative impact on our industry as it can lead to bad business decisions. This talk offers five tips to guide and encourage developers to consider a management role as this will improve our industry and the lives of developers generally."
tag: [Management, Mentoring, Leadership]
slides: "https://speakerdeck.com/robdwaller/5-tips-for-aspiring-tech-managers"
---
## Elevator Pitch
> You have 300 characters to sell your talk. This is known as the "elevator pitch". Make it as exciting and enticing as possible.

More developers should become managers as our industry is rife with bad decisions made by inexperienced people. This talk offers five tips to encourage developers to consider management. More technical managers will improve our industry, our products, the client and user experience, and our lives.

## Description
> You should make the description of your talk as compelling and exciting as possible. Remember, you're selling both the organizers of the events to select your talk, as well as trying to convince attendees your talk is the one they should see.

Management is not a topic of interest for many developers as it diverges from their core interest which is code. It is though an important topic for developers as management decisions have serious effects on their jobs and their work. Often technical management decisions are made be ill-informed people who do not have enough technical experience nor understand how business decisions effect software development and output. It is therefore important that good developers go on to become technical managers.

The transition from code to management can be both scary and a challenge. Management forces many developers outside their comfort zone as they have to deal with issues and problems they have little experience of. Like code though the skills management require can be learnt. This talk offers five tips that will encourage and guide developers through some of the basic problems and issues that they will face as they learn to become good managers.

### You Don't Have to be a Great Coder to be a Great Manager

Developers are often put off management or tech leadership because they assume you have to be a great coder, or the best in your team. This is a damaging misconception as managers need many other skills along with their code experience. Developers should not focus too much on technical skill when considering a move into management. Instead they should focus on other factors such as business experience and communication skills. They should take inspiration from other fields, such as sport, where often the best managers are not the most technically gifted. Developers who wish to become managers should hone their communication skills, and learn about leadership, empathy, and business generally.

### Mistakes Will Happen

Every manager will make mistakes as navigating through the array of challenges management involves is difficult. What is important is not the mistake itself but how the manager responds to the mistake. Good managers need to take ownership of their mistakes and learn to apologise where appropriate. Most importantly though they need to learn how to change and improve after a mistake. And finally they need to learn to keep moving forward and put their mistakes behind them.

### Expect the Unexpected

Tech management isn't just about technology and code, managers have to deal with lots of other issues. Eg the mental wellbeing of their team, their complicated personal lives and many other issues. Managers have to learn to work with departments such as HR and always be prepared to deal with the unexpected. Anything can happen, but a manager's main aim should be to maintain team stability while odd or difficult situations are underway. This is so their team can focus on project delivery without disruption.

### Learn to Compromise

Developers often have high standards, as managers though there are times when compromises will need to be made which will lower standards. There are many reasons for this, business priorities, financial restrictions, difficult clients. It is important to understand how to compromise and what to compromise on. Good managers find a balance between belligerence and softness, the former will damage your inter-team relationships and the latter your team itself. Managers must define 'lines in the sand' that they will not compromise on. But these lines must be understandable to the non-technical because they will require the buy in of other teams and managers. A good 'line in the sand' is security. Don't let anyone do anything that will damage security as this may harm your organisation. Code quality by contrast is a bad 'line in the sand'. It is subjective and non-technical people will not understand its importance. In all other areas managers should be willing to compromise.

### Keep Coding

Developers often believe when they become managers the code stops, but this is nonsense. It is important that tech managers continue to code as  learning never stops. Also managers who continue to code will maintain team respect and keep up to date with the latest technical innovations. It can be difficult for managers to find the time to code, especially in the working day. It is not though the quantity of code that matters but the continuation and routine. A couple of hours a week on a personal a project or contributing to an OSS project is more than enough to keep a manager in touch. And conferences help too, even if it is just one a year.  

## Notes
> This is where you should explain things such as technical requirements, why you're the best person to speak on this subject, etc...

This talk has no technical requirements, even people from non-technical backgrounds may find it useful. It is aimed at all developers who are considering their career path and thinking that management may be an option for them now or in the future.

I have been a technical manager for two years, running a team of ten developers, QAs and project managers. In addition, I spent a few years running a startup which I eventually sold to a larger company. These experiences have provided me with a great insight into management and the business of technology more widely which I'd love to share with other developers.

For more information on me please view my [bio](https://rbrt.wllr.info/about.html) or [CV](https://rbrt.wllr.info/cv.pdf).

### Talks

- I've given this talk at the [PHP London user group](https://www.meetup.com/phplondon/events/248372704/) in March 2018. 

## Slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="9cc457d708334dee8a43ca2037aeb800" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
