_talks/stop-arguing-start-guiding-developer-focus.md, before:

---
title: "Stop Arguing, Start Guiding: Six Basics Developers Need to Focus On"
layout: talk
published: false
description: ""
tag: []
slides: "https://speakerdeck.com/robdwaller/developers-stop-arguing-start-guiding"
---
## Elevator Pitch
> You have 300 characters to sell your talk. This is known as the "elevator pitch". Make it as exciting and enticing as possible.

Code arguments between talented developers spread across Twitter and other social networks like wildfire, but they do nothing to help developers or the community. These arguments cloud developers' judgement and encourage them to focus on pedantic minutiae. It is important that developers focus on guiding other developers 

## Description
> You should make the description of your talk as compelling and exciting as possible. Remember, you're selling both the organizers of the events to select your talk, as well as trying to convince attendees your talk is the one they should see.

## Notes
> This is where you should explain things such as technical requirements, why you're the best person to speak on this subject, etc...

## Slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="96b9c091f9bd4e31825f6b95155be0ca" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

Commit message:

amends to elevator pitch for arguing talk

_talks/stop-arguing-start-guiding-developer-focus.md, after:

---
title: "Stop Arguing, Start Guiding: Six Basics Developers Need to Focus On"
layout: talk
published: false
description: ""
tag: []
slides: "https://speakerdeck.com/robdwaller/developers-stop-arguing-start-guiding"
---
## Elevator Pitch
> You have 300 characters to sell your talk. This is known as the "elevator pitch". Make it as exciting and enticing as possible.

Talented developers need to stop arguing with each other on Twitter and Reddit and focus on guiding and mentoring other developers. Arguments encourage developers to focus on the minutiae rather than getting the basics right. This talk offers six principles developers need to focus to help guide their fellow developers.

## Description
> You should make the description of your talk as compelling and exciting as possible. Remember, you're selling both the organizers of the events to select your talk, as well as trying to convince attendees your talk is the one they should see.

## Notes
> This is where you should explain things such as technical requirements, why you're the best person to speak on this subject, etc...

## Slides

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="96b9c091f9bd4e31825f6b95155be0ca" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
